.TH IPFIX_CREATE 3 "July 2026" "libipfix 0.1.0" "Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ipfix_create, ipfix_create_role, ipfix_create_with_config, ipfix_destroy, ipfix_reset \- create and manage a libipfix collector context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ipfix.h>
.sp
.BI "ipfix_ctx_t *ipfix_create(void);"
.BI "ipfix_ctx_t *ipfix_create_role(ipfix_role_t " role ");"
.BI "ipfix_ctx_t *ipfix_create_with_config(ipfix_role_t " role ", const ipfix_config_t *" cfg ");"
.BI "void ipfix_destroy(ipfix_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.BI "int ipfix_reset(ipfix_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.BI "int ipfix_clear_templates(ipfix_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ipfix_create()
allocates a collector context with default configuration
(event queue 256, max message 64 KiB, template cache 256, reassembly buffer 256 KiB).
.PP
.B ipfix_create_with_config()
allows explicit control via
.BR ipfix_config_t
(see
.BR ipfix_default_config ()
in the header).
.PP
The library is
.BR syscall-free
and
.BR callback-free .
Socket I/O must be performed by the caller (for example with io_uring or epoll).
Input is supplied with
.B ipfix_feed_input()
or
.B ipfix_feed_message()
and results are consumed with
.BR ipfix_next_event ().
.PP
.B ipfix_destroy()
releases all resources. It is safe to call with NULL.
.PP
.B ipfix_reset()
clears the event queue and stream reassembly buffer but
.B retains
learned templates.
.B ipfix_clear_templates()
drops the template cache.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.B ipfix_create() ,
.B ipfix_create_role() ,
and
.B ipfix_create_with_config()
return a context pointer or NULL on allocation failure.
.PP
.B ipfix_reset()
and
.B ipfix_clear_templates()
return 0 on success or a negative error code.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipfix_feed_input (3),
.BR ipfix_feed_message (3),
.BR ipfix_next_event (3)
.SH STANDARDS
RFC 7011 — Specification of the IP Flow Information Export (IPFIX) Protocol.
.SH BUGS
NetFlow v5/v9 are not supported. The exporter role is reserved but not implemented.
